100 statements 
 
Vision 
 
1. I have  personal bests  I m trying to beat when I submit new work 

2. I have a clear idea of what I need to know in order to understand everything well, so I ask the teacher to clarify tasks that I m not 100% clear on . 

3. I have begun researching how other people got to where they were 

4. I have imagined what a good set of exam results look like for me. I have written them down somewhere, like a commitment to myself 

5. I have mental lists of things I hope for, from small to big academic achievements 

6. I have started to find out about current affairs by reading a news site, watching TV news or choosing a documentary to watch  

7. I have thought about what good work looks like, and I m aware of that as I work 

8. I know why school is important to me   I have thought it through, maybe even written it down 

9. I like to ask questions for clarification in lessons and make contributions such as volunteering answers or offering opinions  

10. I often have another class member I compete against 

11. I often talk to my friends about my subjects, going over complicated topics or sharing enthusiasms 

12. I seek extra material (textbooks, articles, handouts, revision sites) to deepen my understanding of a topic  

13. I set targets, like a grade or a certain type of feedback, to work towards 

14. I take an interest in certain careers or courses and seek out video clips or online articles about them, just to see if they might be for me 

15. I try and get involved in school life, joining clubs, helping others and building relationships that will help me as I go along 

16. I want teachers to say good things about me at parents  evenings, and work to make sure those things are more likely to happen 

17. I m happy to watch a film or read a book-chapter connected to my learning so I can find out more and make connections 

18. If the teacher suggests an out-of-class activity or opportunity, I consider it 

19. My attendance and punctuality are very good, and I work to maintain them  

20. When entering a lesson, I m focussed and immediately look for the starter task 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effort 
 
1. I can increase periods of concentration if I have to   I know what my main distractions are, and how to turn them off so I can focus 

2. I challenge myself when studying topics which I am not familiar with, working harder to understand them and revisiting them for checks more often 

3. I complete draft-work in advance and ask the teacher to take a quick look at it so I can make any changes before the real deadline 

4. I don t mind putting in some work over the weekend reviewing difficult work or going through a study guide or website to stay on top of things 

5. I generally know in advance what I plan to achieve in a study session rather than start it and just hope 

6. I go over work one last time before handing it in, just to check it s as good as I can make it 

7. I have an out-of-school routine for homework   doing it when I get home, or at the same time each day 

8. I often ask about the success criteria/requirements of the task so I m more likely to produce quality work   

9. I often ask myself  what can I also do ?  and create my own extension criteria, aiming to impress my teacher  

10. I often go looking for problems   seeking out topics I find hard and listing the questions I want to discuss with my teacher 

11. I often go the extra mile to complete work to a really high standard, asking myself  what would this look like if it were excellent?  

12. I often try to see the value in the work my teachers set, and explain to myself why it s important, even if I sometimes have to persuade myself 

13. I often work without screens, headphones or alerts, switching everything off so it s just me and the task   

14. I set myself little tasks, like reading over the previous week s notes and try to find the answer to things I don t understand 

15. I sometimes approach teachers and ask for suggestions for additional resources or reading recommendations 

16. I speak to teachers or students to check I know what to do before I start, to ensure my effort is targeted wisely 

17. I watch what higher-achieving students do in class and sometimes steal behaviours from them 

18. If I m given a choice of homeworks, I sometimes do both 

19. Sometimes, I look ahead to what we re studying next and do some pre-learning before a lesson so I can arrive with questions 

20. When a subject is tough, I try not to ignore it, but put more effort in instead 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Systems 
 
1. I can breakdown in small steps what I need to achieve, and often do things in more than one sitting rather than all at once 

2. I can summarise and reshape information it so it feels like mine. I might re-write it, or use a table, chart, graph or mind-map 

3. I file my notes in the right place at the end of each day 

4. I have an organised workspace at home and in school to study, with everything in its place so I can find it quickly 

5. I keep my books and folders in one place in my room/home 

6. I know what has been covered so far on my course, and ensure it s all there by checking my books against study websites, textbooks or knowledge organisers 

7. I know where everything is all of the time and can access relevant notes during the lesson easily 

8. I look ahead to next week, checking what needs doing so that even when lots of deadlines come at once, I work out how to finish and submit everything 

9. I make mini-lists of tasks I have to do at the start of particular periods   like on a Monday, or over a weekend   and think about how to prioritise them 

10. I might set reminders for myself   alarms on my phone   or leave notes for myself so I don t forget things 

11. I often list the things I have to do and figure out which order I need to do things to make the best use of my time 

12. I organise my work visually, maybe using colourful stationery or reminders so that I know how the course works 

13. I pack my bag for the next day the night before 

14. I review my notes to ensure they are organised in a beneficial order for revision, sticking in handouts, making a contents page or adding colourful headings 

15. I set aside time for study and resist the temptation to watch TV until it s been done 

16. I sometimes make quick daily lists   must finish this, have to do this, get started on this task, etc. 

17. I sometimes plan my week in advance, giving myself plenty of time to work on tasks 

18. I sometimes summarise everything we ve learnt on one page, or a series of flash-cards, or a knowledge organiser 

19. I spend small periods of time just double-checking I ve done everything I need to or reviewing the last few days 

20. I work out the best way to present a whole course and reorganise everything so it s clear and helpful for me 


 
 
 
 
 
 
Practice 
 
1. I am not afraid to give a question a go, even if I am not fully sure the method I use on my first attempt will be a success 

2. I analyse where I have gone wrong on exam or test questions by going through the feedback or checking a mark scheme 

3. I collect exam questions and organise them into groups: topic-by-topic or easy-medium-hard 

4. I do past paper questions, often for short intense bursts, dipping in and out like mini-exams 

5. I have a go at making my own exam style questions and marking my answers 

6. I have identified my weaker areas of understanding and focused more time on these areas 

7. I know how long each exam is and I am driven to know how long I will need to spend on each section. I time myself on each section to try to work this out 

8. I know the different command words to expect in a test or exam and have listed them so I can revise each one 

9. I know the skills required in exams and tests, often I ve practised using a range of unfamiliar data, photos, graphs, maps, questions etc so it doesn t matter if the wording is different on the day or examples are unfamiliar 

10. I know what I need to do with my notes in order to make them fit for retrieval/revision, and I spend time regularly checking I can recall them 

11. I like looking at model answers to understand how to reach the top of the mark scheme 

12. I often lecture my notes out loud from memory as if I were teaching a class, to practice the kind of explanation the exam will require of me 

13. I re-use past paper questions, sometimes over and over, until I m confident 

14. I seek out additional exam questions and mark schemes, even if they are from different exam boards 

15. I set myself timed questions and work under exam conditions even when I don t feel like it 

16. I sometimes submit extra work for marking to ensure my teacher gives me a clear steer on how to improve 

17. I sometimes try and  think like an examiner    imagining what possible questions might come up for a topic and listing them all 

18. I will find opportunities to test myself on the knowledge I have gained by covering up information and trying to recall it 

19.If there are gaps in my knowledge, I know it s my job to find out how to fill them 

20. When I revise with my friends, we test each other rather than just copy each other s notes 


 
 
 
 
 
 
Attitude 
 
1. I allow myself time to be disappointed if something hasn t gone as well as I hoped, but I can move forward and make a list of what I need to improve 

2. I can allow myself to be proud of what I have achieved, making a note of good news so I can return to it when I m feeling less positive 

3. I don t allow negative thoughts to dominate, I try to express them in a more positive way;  one thing this teaches me is   or  I know now that next time I need to   or  mistakes give me information on how to improve   

4. I expect to have setbacks, they are part of my learning process. I try and take responsibility for them rather than blame everyone else 

5. I find a group with students who are currently performing better than I am, as it gives me a chance to challenge myself when I try to match or beat them 

6. I generally focus on written feedback rather than the mark or grade alone 

7. I generally keep trying on topics or questions I find hard, knowing that the longer I persist, the more likely I will succeed 

8. I have some tactics I use if I am feeling demotivated - go for a run, walk my dog, visit my friend, take a break 

9. I know constructive feedback is not an attack on my personality and this helps me action it rather than ignore it 

10. I know mistakes are information. I will give challenging work a go and try not to be afraid of making errors 

11. I know that sometimes, feedback is a reflection on my levels of effort or concentration  If I have to, I will accept I need to do more 

12. I read teacher feedback carefully and use this to re-draft work if I am unhappy with the grade 

13. I see my peers  strengths as an opportunity to learn from them, for example by asking to revise as a pair, swapping notes or checking someone else s work 

14. I seek help and support from peers and teachers when needed   I don t feel this is a sign of weakness 

15. I sometimes force myself to be positive, for example by listing three good things that have recently happened 

16. I try and be positive, help others be positive, and choose positive friends. When friends get overly negative I either tell them, or take a break from them 

17. I try not to feel embarrassed when I am praised, but accept the praise and reflect on why it was given 

18. I use caring language and growth mindset to think about and discuss my learning; even when things have been hard I try not to criticise myself 

19. When I improve a score or mark, I take time to recognise what I did to achieve it   perhaps making a note so I can make sure I repeat my success 

20. When I need to, I know I can focus on how far I ve come and reassure myself that I m making progress 


 
 
 
 

